## File with explicitly installed packages

    var/lib/portage/world

## dispatch-conf

dispatch-conf is a tool that aids in merging the ._cfg0000_<name> files.
._cfg0000_<name> files are generated by Portage when it wants to overwrite a
file in a directory protected by the CONFIG_PROTECT variable.

With dispatch-conf, users are able to merge updates to their configuration
files while keeping track of all changes.

    sudo dispatch-conf

## Gentoolkit

Suite of tools to ease the administration of a Gentoo system, and Portage in particular (includes equery and eclean-dist)

    emerge --ask app-portage/gentoolkit

## Equery

View information about Portage packages.

List all installed packages.

    equery list '*'

List all packages that depend on a given package

    equery d package_name

## eclean-dist

Clean the source files directory by passing the distfiles argument:

    sudo eclean-dist -d

* ```--destructive, -d``` Only keep the minimum for a reinstallation
* ```--pretend, -p``` Only display what would be cleaned

## Emerge

Gentoo Linux package manager utility. More information:
* <https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Portage#emerge>,
* <https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Full_manpages/emerge>.

Synchronize all packages

    emerge --sync
    
* ```--sync``` Updates repositories, for which auto-sync, sync-type and
  sync-uri attributes are set in repos.conf.

Update all packages, including dependencies

    emerge -uDNav @world
    
* ```--update, -u``` Updates packages to the best version available, which may
  not always be the highest version number due to masking for testing and
  development.
* ```--deep, -D``` This flag forces emerge to consider the entire dependency
  tree of packages, instead of checking only the immediate dependencies of the
  packages.
* ```--newuse, -N``` Tells emerge to include installed packages where USE flags
  have changed since compilation. 
* ```--ask, -a```
* ```--verbose, -v``` Tell emerge to run in verbose mode. 

Resume a failed updated, skipping the failing package

    emerge --resume --skipfirst
    
* ```--resume, -r``` Resumes the most recent merge list that has been aborted
  due to an error.
* ```--skipfirst``` This option is only valid when used with ```--resume```. It
  removes the first package in the resume list.

Install a new package, with confirmation

    emerge -av package_name

Delete a package with dependencies left (be careful, it's better to deselect
and depclean after)

    emerge -Cav package_name
    
* ```--unmerge, -C``` WARNING: This action can remove important packages!
  Removes all matching packages following a counter governed by CLEAN_DELAY. 

Remove orphaned packages (that were installed only as dependencies)

    emerge -avc
    
* ```--depclean, -c``` Cleans the system by removing packages that are not
  associated with explicitly merged packages.

Delete a package if no other package depends on it

    emerge -avc package_name

Search the package database for a keyword

    emerge -S keyword

Remove package from world (don't delete the package)

    emerge --ask --deselect package_name

### Mental Outlaw

* ```--search, -s``` Searches for matches of the supplied string in the ebuild
  repository.
* ```--searchdesc, -S``` Matches the search string against the description
  field as well as the package name.
* ```--prune, -P``` Removes all but the highest installed version of a package
  from your system. Use ```--prune``` together with --verbose to show reverse
  dependencies or with ```--nodeps``` to ignore all dependencies. WARNING: This
  action can remove packages from your world file! Check the emerge output of
  the next ```--depclean``` run carefully! Use ```--depclean``` to avoid this
  issue.

    emerge --autounmask-continue package_name
    
* ```--autounmask``` Automatically unmask packages and generate package.use
  settings as necessary to satisfy dependencies.
* ```--autounmask-continue``` Automatically apply autounmask changes to
  configuration files, and continue to execute the specified command.

## glsa-check

test all

    glsa-check -t all

fix all

    sudo glsa-check -f all
